This module is called “Impact Model”, which is related to the expected output: a narrative related to the expected impacts of the nature based solutions within the project, taking the city context into account; and the co-benefits of these solutions, both individually and as a network of solutions, exposing how they interact with each other with synergy. This module sits at the core of the project design process, where we’ve already have a project intent, a PLAC, a funder or list of funders selected and more importantly the geospatial zones of intervention. This is important, since by this stage we know what we’re looking to do and where we should do it. The goal for the module is to provide: a differential or delta between the current and future scenarios (what’s the expected impact of these solutions – which we’re doing well at the moment, as we’re providing ranges for these); a list of co-benefits of implementing these solutions (which is directly linked to the expected impact and the synergetic nature of the selected solutions) and a narrative that serves as communication artifact, describing what we’re already describing (executive summary, context and rationale, theory of change, portfolio overview and phasing, expected impacts, key co-benefits, synergies and alignment, assumptions, risks and dependencies, MRV stub, output signals for operations, maintenance and business model). The module basically takes the general context about the city, the project, the funder or funders, the project preparation facility, the solutions to be implemented, the zones where they will be implemented (with all the geospatial data layer behind risks, demography and zoning); and uses it to describe the Impact, Co-Benefits and Narratives of the plan until that moment. Later this will feed into the budgeting, operations and maintenance, and business model modules or services, to turn the impact module outputs into a finance-ready project design.
Setup stage: at the moment here we customize the factor weights, like flood risk reduction, heat reduction, and so on. This is not needed anymore, as it’s already defined previously. Below that we now have the “intervention bundles” which contain the zones and the user can pick which intervention zones to include. Ideally this should display also the projects or interventions for each zone, so we need to expand this to include the mentioned projects and interventions. I’d like to add a city context summary, with all the data that’s coming from other modules in a snapshot. If we have the city context, the implementation projects and the selected zones, then we don’t need a generate stage, we can simply click on “generate”, include a loader modal that loops the phrases “estimating project impact - connecting co-benefits with expected impact - generating your impact narrative”. Once ready, we can display the generated content (executive summary, context and rationale, theory of change, portfolio overview and phasing, expected impacts, key co-benefits, synergies and alignment, assumptions, risks and dependencies, MRV stub, output signals for operations, maintenance and business model) straight in the “Curate” stage.
Curate stage: at the moment we’re displaying the narrative blocks in accordions, which are also collapsed. We should display these open, in blocks that can be regenerated. It should be readable, so let’s put the blocks in boxes that can be reordered, with clear text hierarchies, formatted properly and with a “re-generate” icon button that triggers the “custom instructions for regeneration” in a modal or pop-up, to reduce the visual congestion. The current co-benefits section is too scarce in descriptions too, So we should show these more visually, including ranges or metrics. We should also include a section dedicated to the impact of each implementation project or solution or intervention, as a more detailed one-by-one view (not necessarily one at a time, rather showing impact specific to each intervention or solution). One way to do this is to include the map, showing the sites, and the implementation projects for each.
Lenses Stage: At the moment the lenses are working okay, but we need to display a lens description and include a “headline” that should contain the narrative tone for the generated lens content. So each time we generate a lens, it comes with a headline highlighting and somewhat summarizing the lens tone for that project. Add icons to each lens as well.
The Export Stage is okay for now. We can expand the context we have at the end, after we went through the steps. A key change: if we have more than one lens generated, we should be able to select which lens we’re exporting.